# usermanagement

Simple Command Line JAVA Application
Apache Maven was used to create and manage the project. 

Once the dependency list was added to the Maven project through editing POM.xml, maven install was used to install the dependencies. The dependencies are - JDBC driver which is the database driver to connect to PostgreSQL, and JUnit, the testing framework. 

JDBC
JDBC is Java Database Connectivity driver. The dependency was given in the POM.xml file. The version of the JDBC for PostgreSQL used is 9.3-1104-jdbc41 for PostgreSQL 9.3.

JUnit 
JUnit is the testing framework which is in built in java. It is used for unit testing. I have written one JUnit class to test three functions here. This is also needs to be given as the dependency in POM.xml. Here the JUnit version I am using is 4.12.

XML - org.w3c.dom API
The XML is 

<?xml version="1.0"?>
<persons>
	<person No="1">
		<firstname>meenu</firstname>
		<lastname>vincent</lastname>
	</person>
	<person No="2">
		<firstname>John</firstname>
		<lastname>Smith</lastname>
	</person>
</persons>

Here person No is not ID. The ID is automatically generated by the system. Only the ‘firstname’ and ‘lastname’ are taken from the xml and stored in the database. org.w3c.dom API – Java API for XML processing is used for XML parsing.

Database Specification
DBMS: PostgreSQL
Database name: usermanagement
User: admin
Password: test123
Table name: persons 
(user admin has all permissions on table persons)
Table attributes and attribute types:
1.	id - serial NOT NULL primary key
2.	firstname - character(15)
3.	lastname - character(15)

Application Specification
Packages: 
1.	com.usermanagement.application – For classes for the logic.
Classes: 
•	ReadXML.java
•	UserDetail.java – POJO class
•	UserManagementConsole.java
2.	com.usermanagement.dbmodel – For Database connection and operations.
Classes:
•	DBConnection.java
•	DBOperations.java
3.	com.usermanagement.tester – Junit class.
Classes:
•	UserManagementJunit.java

Test Coverage
JUnit is used for testing. Tested three functions which are AddPerson, EditPerson and DeletePerson.

Execution
The project is exported to runnable JAR file which is usermanagement.jar. the jar file can be run through the following set of commands:

java -jar usermanagement.jar

The different operations will be displayed onscreen and corresponding options can be selected from the command line.

Source Code
The folder EclipseProject has a copy of the project from eclipse workspace.
